---
layout: post
title: Akira Yokokawa
---

Software engineer at Axsh co., ltd.

### Research Interests

Automatic and autonomous machine tuning, workload characterization and performance prediction of consolidated virtual machines, concurrent and parallel programming, operating system and its security.

### Work Experience

* Oct. 2012 - present: Axsh co., ltd. (Software Engineer)

Design and development of Wakame-vdc, Wakame-fuel and Wakame-os. The Wakame-vdc offers virtualization of whole data center in order to ease copying, moving and deploying new data centers everywhere in the world.

* Apr. 2011 - Aug. 2012: IBM Zurich Research Laboratory. (Intern)

Characterizing workload and aformentioning resource usage of consolidated virtual machines coexisting on large-scale data centers. As a part of the research, I developed a linux kernel module which measures parallelism of programs in detail at runtime. The kernel module is called pprof (which stands for parallelism profiler), and its source code will be on public repository on GitHub soon.

* Apr. 2008 - Mar. 2010: Department of Computer Science, University of Tsukuba. (Research Assistant)

Design and development of a class-hierarchy centric security policy which enables to reuse legacy security policies.

### Education

* Sep. 2010 - Aug. 2012: Faculty of Informatics, University of Lugano (Ph.D.)
* Apr. 2010 - Aug. 2010: Department of Computer Science, University of Tsukuba (Ph.D)
* Apr. 2008 - Mar. 2010: Department of Computer Science, University of Tsukuba (M.S.)
* Apr. 2006 - Mar. 2008: Department of Computer Science, University of Tsukuba (B.S.)

